---
layout: post
title:  The API
date:   2021-06-18
description: The anthrocentric policy interface
---

Though diverse, most humans share a common set of input and output modalities: sight, hearing, touch, and skeletal motor control. This common interface aligns our perception of the world to a rasonable degree and facilitates social interaction and collaboration. I propose definining a common set of modalities for artificial intelligence systems as well: the *anthrocentric policy interface* or *API*. The API consists of:
- motor: discrete or continuous motor information structured as a sparse undirected graph.
- touch: discrete or continuous touch information structured as a sparse undirected graph.
- sequence: a variable length floating-point tensor sequence
- text: a variable length string of tokens
- hearing: a variable length waveform
- vision: a variable size, variable channel image

All modalities recieve information over time. I.E.: An environment sequenctially delivers images or a conversation bot recieves only short segments of text at a time.

Models, datasets, and environments may have more than one of each modality. For example, you might have a policy with `vision:left` and `vision:right` or `text:magent` (social communication) and `text:control` (user directions).

All modalities are both input and output.
- The environment or dataset defines the motor graph. This graph is consumed by the agent which marks the verteces with specific actions.
- The latter four modalities (touch, text, hearing, vision) can be percieved as sensory data and their outputs can be predictions for the next timestep.

Some problems like bounding box identification (vision) and regression (sequence) may be answered using the modalities that data is provided in. I.E.: the model literally draws a box around the objects it separates or the model generates the 

If this interface becomes widely accepted, people might say, 'although this model accepts additional modalities, it is API-compatable' or 'this dataset/environment conforms to the API'. 

I hope this interface defines a clear milestone for increasingly strong and general artificial intelligence systems. However it is only a milestone and not an finish line.